content/resume.md, before:

+++
title = 'Resume'
layout = "about"
draft = false
+++

I've mainly been active in technology and entrepreneurship. More details below.

## Work EXP

|  | Company | Role | Dates |
|------|---------|------|-------|
| ![Forge Fire](/images/logos/forgefire.svg) | [Forge Fire AI Engineering](https://forgefire.dev) | AI Engineer & Owner | Jan 2022 - Present, Eindhoven (Remote), NL |
| ![VBTI](/images/logos/vbti.png) | [VBTI](https://www.vbti.nl) | Artificial Intelligence Engineer | Jan 2021 - Jan 2022, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![Dimenco](/images/logos/dimenco.png) | [Dimenco](https://www.dimenco.eu) | Embedded Software Engineer | Jul 2019 - Mar 2020, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![UMass](/images/logos/umass.png) | [University of Massachusetts Amherst](https://www.umass.edu) | Robotics Research Intern | Feb 2019 - May 2019, Massachusetts, US |
| ![Tech United](/images/logos/techunited.png) | [Tech United Eindhoven](https://www.techunited.nl) | Robotics Research Intern | Jan 2016 - Sep 2018, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![TU/e](/images/logos/tue.png) | [EuFlex](https://www.euflex.nl) | Tutor @ Eindhoven University of Technology | Sep 2017 - Feb 2018, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![Prodrive](/images/logos/prodrive.svg) | [Prodrive Technologies](https://www.prodrive-technologies.com) | Design Engineer | Apr 2016 - Nov 2016, Eindhoven, NL |

## Educational EXP

|  | Institution | Degree | Field | Dates |
|------|-------------|--------|-------|-------|
| ![TU/e](/images/logos/tue.png) | [Eindhoven University of Technology](https://www.tue.nl) | Master of Science | Mechanical Engineering - System And Control | 2016 - 2020 |
| ![TU/e](/images/logos/tue.png) | [Eindhoven University of Technology](https://www.tue.nl) | Bachelor of Science | Mechanical Engineering | 2013 - 2016 |

## Miscellaneous EXP

|  | Organization | Role | Dates |
|------|--------------|------|-------|
| ![Serpentine AI](/images/logos/serpentine.png) | [Serpentine AI](https://www.serpentineai.nl) | Advisory Board, Tech Lead, Co-Founder | Sep 2018 - Present, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![FruitPunch AI](/images/logos/fruitpunch.png) | [FruitPunch AI](https://www.fruitpunch.ai) | Co-Founder | Sep 2018 - Dec 2018, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![Hwarang](/images/logos/hwarang.png) | [Hwarang Yangban](https://www.hwarang-yangban.com/) | Martial Arts Instructor | Sep 2013 - Aug 2018 |
| ![Budo Ryu](/images/logos/budoryu.png) | [Budo Ryu Sports](https://budoryusports.nl/) | Martial Arts Instructor | Sep 2013 - Aug 2018 |

Commit message:

Add learn page, update resume and about page

content/resume.md, after:

+++
title = 'Resume'
layout = "about"
draft = false
+++

I've mainly been active in technology and entrepreneurship. You can find out more about the projects I've been involved with and other relevant professional information here.

## Open Source

- __[Guess The Password 🗝️](https://github.com/mickeybeurskens/guess-the-password):__ A guessing game used to explore large language model guardrailing concepts.
- __[This Website 📖](https://github.com/mickeybeurskens/mickeybeurskens.github.io):__ The source code for this website, written in Hugo.
- __[Perry Doc Search 🕵](https://github.com/mickeybeurskens/perry-doc-search):__ An early large language model based PDF document search prototype. 

## Public Speaking

- __[Team Red - Hacking Large Language Models](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F-UGqGsQvhc):__ At PyData Eindhoven - _2023, 30th of November_
- __[AI Demystified](https://mikrocentrum.nl/en/technology/materials/)__: At the Materials Fair convention - _2022, 30th of April_

## Work EXP

|  | Company | Role | Dates |
|------|---------|------|-------|
| ![Forge Fire](/images/logos/forgefire.svg) | [Forge Fire AI Engineering](https://forgefire.dev) | AI Engineer & Owner | Jan 2022 - Present, Eindhoven (Remote), NL |
| ![VBTI](/images/logos/vbti.png) | [VBTI](https://www.vbti.nl) | Artificial Intelligence Engineer | Jan 2021 - Jan 2022, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![Dimenco](/images/logos/dimenco.png) | [Dimenco](https://www.dimenco.eu) | Embedded Software Engineer | Jul 2019 - Mar 2020, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![UMass](/images/logos/umass.png) | [University of Massachusetts Amherst](https://www.umass.edu) | Robotics Research Intern | Feb 2019 - May 2019, Massachusetts, US |
| ![Tech United](/images/logos/techunited.png) | [Tech United Eindhoven](https://www.techunited.nl) | Robotics Research Intern | Jan 2016 - Sep 2018, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![TU/e](/images/logos/tue.png) | [EuFlex](https://www.euflex.nl) | Tutor @ Eindhoven University of Technology | Sep 2017 - Feb 2018, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![Prodrive](/images/logos/prodrive.svg) | [Prodrive Technologies](https://www.prodrive-technologies.com) | Design Engineer | Apr 2016 - Nov 2016, Eindhoven, NL |

## Educational EXP

|  | Institution | Degree | Field | Dates |
|------|-------------|--------|-------|-------|
| ![TU/e](/images/logos/tue.png) | [Eindhoven University of Technology](https://www.tue.nl) | Master of Science | Mechanical Engineering - System And Control | 2016 - 2020 |
| ![TU/e](/images/logos/tue.png) | [Eindhoven University of Technology](https://www.tue.nl) | Bachelor of Science | Mechanical Engineering | 2013 - 2016 |

## Miscellaneous EXP

|  | Organization | Role | Dates |
|------|--------------|------|-------|
| ![Serpentine AI](/images/logos/serpentine.png) | [Serpentine AI](https://www.serpentineai.nl) | Advisory Board, Tech Lead, Co-Founder | Sep 2018 - Present, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![FruitPunch AI](/images/logos/fruitpunch.png) | [FruitPunch AI](https://www.fruitpunch.ai) | Co-Founder | Sep 2018 - Dec 2018, Eindhoven, NL |
| ![Hwarang](/images/logos/hwarang.png) | [Hwarang Yangban](https://www.hwarang-yangban.com/) | Martial Arts Instructor | Sep 2013 - Aug 2018 |
| ![Budo Ryu](/images/logos/budoryu.png) | [Budo Ryu Sports](https://budoryusports.nl/) | Martial Arts Instructor | Sep 2013 - Aug 2018 |

---

#### Contact

_If you'd like to get in touch, you can email me at __info__ @ __forgefire__ dot __dev___
