# Meditations On Tinkering

"The genius inventor ruffles through another stack of papers. Constantly churning out new contraptions and theories that stun and baffle, his vision generated by his chaotic but effective mind moves his inventions forever forward."

"The charismatic entrepreneur, fueled by a drive to create, bends business and finance to her will and brings her vision to fruition."

"A solitary writer sits back in his chair as he looks over another draft. After many iterations, it is finally ready. He smirks, and sips his coffee contently."

I've always been drawn to stories like the ones above. Even if we care to remind ourselves that these representations are highly idealized (as is the case by necessity with such highly condensed narrative descriptions), they all contain part of a similar essence.  The spirit of creation, the will and the tenacity to experiment, and both the talent and the luck required to be successful at such things. Every character displays a taste, or obsession if you prefer, for creative pursuit and tinkering. It is the latter subject that I'd like to dedicate some time to today. I hope to expand on my thoughts, knowing that I am outside my zone of expertise. But as grandma used to say (loosely translated): "Nothing ventured, nothing gained!" I take that advice seriously.

(I readily admit that this short essay relies heavily, if not entirely, on the work by [Nassim Taleb](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nassim_Nicholas_Taleb) on "Black Swans". I can highly recommend reading his work, and urge you to read his books if this is of interest to you.)

Much of what makes our current affluence possible is the human potential to create novel items and techniques over time. Tinkering is one way to approach this creative process, by trying out different ideas without the constraint of "having it be directly useful". It is exploratory and unconcerned with direct outcome. It fails to produce something useful most of the time, but there is a small chance that it produces an outlandishly useful idea. Usually one tinkers when one has passion for the subject, like a home cook that tries different ratios of ingredients, or an inventor that plays with different drone designs just to see what happens. I suspect that this process is mostly responsible for the exponential breakthroughs in science and engineering.

The tinkering process does not necessarily happen on an individual level, although I would like to make the point later that it can be extremely useful that way. Scaling tinkering between multiple organizations is how venture capitalists make their money! Let me explain: Most venture capitalists divide their money between many different startups, lets say 20. Typically only very few of those generate any revenue, but the revenue can exponentially outsize the sum of money invested in all of the companies! The underlying dynamic here is to let many groups try out their idea and explore, but only precious few will succeed. 

This can be hugely lucrative for the investors involved, and similarly so for the society in which this process takes place. A less rosy picture emerges when considering this dynamic from the perspective of the (possibly brave but likely overly optimistic) entrepreneur. The chance of succeeding in a new venture is vanishingly small. It would take a huge appetite for risk, or significant blindness of it, to even consider playing the startup game. Betting "all-in" style in such an environment is bound to make one go bust. It is easy to miss this, because most people are only familiar with the surviving businesses. This is a silent evidence problem: We cannot gain meaningful information on the characteristics of successful startups when we only look at a sample of startups conditioned on their own survival. There can be many failed startups with the same qualities that we have simply never heard of!

This situation then begs the question: "Is there a way to be an entrepreneur while not engaging in an explosive all-or-nothing strategy?" This is where the "barbell strategy", famously developed and used by Nassim Taleb, can offer an alternative. Taleb proposes that even though we cannot predict the future (i.e. we cannot know which innovation will fuel a successful business ahead of time), we can assess the quality of the consequence and alter our behavior accordingly. For instance, we know that a business that launches a successful software product will be subject to extreme profits, even if we cannot estimate the likelihood of such a situation occurring. This situation would be a positive extreme situation, or a positive "Black Swan". Knowing this we can maximize our *exposure* to positive Black Swans and limit our exposure to negative Black Swans (hence the "two sides" of the barbel strategy), by investing a little bit in a lot of different initiative and ideas. This, to me, is the essence of tinkering. 

It is also why I believe that tinkering can be a great tool for those who wish to live the life of the entrepreneur. It allows an individual or a small team to manage their own exposure to risk and reward explicitly. The critically thinking reader might now object: "Mickey, you fool! Of course I would like to build many different products like that, but we are a small company and we do not have the resources to do that! What we need is focus, Mickey, not this hippie b***." And I can see  the point in your terribly rude remark. The key insight here is that you do not have to do all these things in parallel, unless you happen to have those resources. You can do these things sequentially, and try to increase your exposure while also making enough money to keep a roof over your head. This obviously depends on your personal situation. I am trying out the strategy currently. I'll let you know what happens in the future. Or not, and I will be added to the silent evidence pile.

A bit of nuance: When the big scaling opportunity does come along, you need to aggressively seize it. By the nature of extreme effects the opportunities are incredibly rare. Increase your exposure and avoid making all-in bets until a unique situation presents itself, and then seize that possibility by the tail feathers! I owe the reader an explanation on how to recognize these opportunities, but I sadly cannot. I believe that recognizing such an opportunity is subject to your particular domain, and even when an opportunity arises it is important to consider it carefully. However, I also believe that this way of thinking primes people to notice the opportunities more readily, and to appreciate their rare nature once they do occur. I will leave the rest to you and to luck. 

In conclusion, to all you tinkerers out there: Do not feel ashamed and enjoy the work you do. You never know just what might happen along the way. 